# football-app

Current Live version: https://football-app-dun.vercel.app/

This web application is designed to rate football games that are live or have already been played in order to help the user determine which games will be most entertaining to watch.

The idea for this comes from the difficulty in enjoying a late summer to early winter Saturday in the best way possible. My entire life I have wanted to watch the best college footbal games that are played AND I want to do other things. Whether those other things are family, friends, work, the yard, golf, intramurals, boating, hiking, or whatever else you like that I don't, all college football fans have something that they would rather be doing/get done instead of watching commercials all day. This app allows you to record every college football game and let the app tell you which games to watch without telling you anything about it. This app takes the risk out of recording and gives back hours of your Saturdays from watching ads.

Game ratings are calculated in several parts. The first and maybe most important is generated by calculating how much of the game was close OR by whether the team that was losing was able to make a comeback. This is modified with a bonus if the game was closer than the spread.

The second part is the importance of the game. This is generated very simply, currently. If the team has played less than ten games then this score factors in historical record. The historical record accounts for the percentage of games less than ten. (EX: For a team that has played five games historical record factors in 50%.) If the team has played ten games then the importance for each team is the win/loss percentage. These are added together and divided by two. 

The third rating is the explosiveness rating. Great games have big plays and this rating is created by iterating through each play of the game and adding to an explosiveness score when chunk plays, scores, turnovers, sacks and other big plays happen.

The fourth rating is the talent composite score of the two teams. All things being equal, great athletes make great games. The more talent on the field, the better. This rating is pulled from College Football API and not modified very much.

The final and least important rating is for how many penalties occur in the game. This should be weighted the least heavily but all things being equal games are much better when they are not a ref show. 

These ratings are weighted and added together to form a total composite ranking which is displayed in ranked order within the web application.